The MS Software Engineering (MSSE) Capstone Project gives you the opportunity to
integrate and apply your knowledge of software engineering languages, tools,
methods, and project management in producing, as part of a team, either:
a. An AI system (a software system built incorporating the use of AI models and
using AI engineering techniques) or
b. Other software system
Over the course of approximately three and a half months, you will draw on your
software development or AI engineering expertise, apply appropriate engineering
methodologies, and use collaborative tools learned throughout the program. This
culminating experience simulates the role of a professional engineer and prepares you
for real-world practice.
Over the course of the Capstone, you will continue to strengthen your skills in software
project management, software architecture and design, software testing, AI-based
applications and/or AI model fine-tuning and continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD). You will apply the knowledge and techniques gained throughout your
MSSE studies in a hands-on, project-based environment. In addition, you will develop
essential teamwork skills by collaborating within a diverse, high-performing software
engineering or AI engineering team. Because projects and their requirements vary,
success will require adaptability, a collaborative mindset, and a willingness to take
responsibility for your own learning and contributions.
The experiential approach, commonly known as “learning by doing,” allows you to gain
experience of working cooperatively and constructively as a part of a software or AI
engineering team. The application of project management and software engineering
skills to a valuable development task will allow you to practice and develop real-world
software or AI engineering capabilities. Quantic faculty have extensive experience
working in various industry sectors, and/or in consultancy roles and many have
research experience in specific areas. Faculty will be a valuable resource to call upon if
guidance is required to help you select and build a valuable software deliverable.
The software code you develop for your Capstone project will be hosted in a shared
GitHub repository (with the option to make it public). This serves as a widely accepted
and practical way to showcase your engineering skills to potential employers and
other professionals. For this reason, you are encouraged to approach the project with
diligence and a commitment to excellence - producing high-quality code and an
outstanding deliverable can provide significant, tangible benefits to your career after
graduation.

Learning Outcomes
When completed successfully, this project will enable you to:
● Work as part of an agile engineering team to analyze, design, develop, test and
deploy a high-quality software system, or AI application or agent
● Utilize the appropriate engineering methodology and tools for your project to
deliver a software system on-time
● Demonstrate a working deliverable that meets agreed requirements to product
stakeholders
● Demonstrate the use of appropriate AI tooling to support software development
● Utilize appropriate software and AI engineering techniques and technologies
throughout

Deliverables
The main deliverable of the MSSE Capstone is a working, high-quality software system
or AI system meeting its user requirements. To deliver this software system you will be
expected to have applied appropriate engineering methodologies and collaborative
tools (such as CI/CD tools), designed your product appropriately and utilized various
technologies learnt during your studies. While there are some requisite deliverable
components, there is no mandatory format for the final deliverable. You
should include in your submission:
1) An (accessible) link to the software repository (a GitHub repo) containing the
project’s developed code. The code should be appropriately documented. You
must share your repository with the GitHub account, quantic-grader.
2) The repository should include a link to the deployed version of the software or
AI system (if a Web application).
3) The repository should include an (accessible) link to an agile task board
(typically a Trello Scrum Board or other appropriate board) documenting all
tasks carried out and features delivered
4) The repository should include a design and testing document listing and
explaining 1) design and architecture decisions made, including any software
and architectural patterns used, and 2) details of software testing implemented
5) A link to a recording of a demonstration/presentation of the working software
or AI system at the conclusion of the Capstone Project. The deliverable if a Web
application should be deployed to a free tier hosting environment such as
Render, Railway etc. or any other of your choice.